This is very much a beta version, so please let me know if you spot any errors or have other features you'd like to see. It's written in Access 365, so the features and fixes are, at least to some extent, restricted by the limitations of MS Access itself. On the front page of the application, I have a "release notes" button you can press to get more information, but this github site is where all the real information is. As an MS Access application, it won't work on Apple products without some workarounds I don't completely understand. You're on your own on that one. I've also created a character builder for the FASA Star Trek RPG from the 1980s. It can currently create Federation, Klingon, and Romulan PCs. However, in 2012, I created an application that did everything else. It allows you to instantly create solar systems, NPCs of all races, starships MCPs, etc. I've moved only some of those features into the 2025 application. You can find those materials here: https://gsllcblog.com/fasa-star-trek-rpg-resources/. All are free, though I do have a donation button somewhere on that blog (hint, hint).
***
EDIT 1/13/2026: Version 2. Added an very initiative tracker. On tab 1 of GM Tools, enter in all your PCs, which includes character and player names, hit points, initiative bonus, and initiative score (rolled or assigned). On tab 2, build your NPC encounter (as already exists) then click the Initiative button. Nothing will appear to happen, but when you go to the next tab, you'll see all PCs and NPCs in an initiative tracker. You can add conditions and modify their hit points, but you have to go back to the encounter builder to once again pull up an NPC's stat block. You can delay characters or break initiative ties by moving them up or down in order. You can track their hit points and conditions. Note: Data is persistent. If you close out the software, your encounter data will still be there when you get back. Warning: Hitting the Initiative button undoes your current initiative, rerolling your scores.
***
EDIT 1/15/2026: Version 3. Added each power's type of attack, such as "close burst 2" or "area burst 1 within 10," to the character sheet. Add more data that one can enter when creating PCs. Cleaned up the error messages received, which had been, let's say, inelegant before the fix.
***
EDIT 1/16/2026: Access limitation. When the user opens the character sheet (which must be done while the character generator data entry form is open), and prints the character sheet using the print button in the Access ribbon, it instead prints the underlyng character generator data entry form. There are a few workarounds, but the easiest one is this: When printing the character sheet, right click directly on the report itself and choose "Print..." from the pop up menu that creates. This forces the system to print the character sheet instead of the data entry form.
***
EDIT 1/19/2026: Version 4.5.
1.	You can now add custom armor bonuses for when you salvage Omega Tech armor with nonstandard bonuses. For example, when you salvage a Dimensional Shuntshield, it becomes ordinary light armor but with a +4 armor bonus to AC (rather than +3) and a +1 armor bonus to Fortitude and Reflex (rather than +0 to both). You can now check off that your armor is custom armor and enter the +4 and +1 into appropriate text boxes. I imagine that a GM might grant a character natural armor (or other boons through genetic enhancement) outside the scope of anything provided in published material. This works with the new feature. Just select "no armor," check the Custom checkbox, and fill in all the custom values. If the character still wears armor, then just select that armor, fill in the regular numbers (e.g., +7 for heavy armor), but give it a custom bonus as apporpriate (e.g., a +1 to Reflex due to genetic enhancements).
2.	Character Sheet: Added what type of armor the character is using, adding “(s)” if they’re carrying a shield as well (e.g., “heavy(s)” v. “heavy”). There’s no indication that the armor is custom, but the numbers reflect custom bonuses to defenses and speed.
3.	Character Sheet: Added the overcharge bonus as a parenthetical to the primary ability.
4.	Character Builder: When clicking the Open Character button, I've now added cleaner error messages for the easily made mistake of opening the wrong file type (Access won't allow me to restrict what you see to just files with a given extension). More will likely be necessary as new errors are discovered, but there’s a catch all that at least gives a clean, if cryptic and unhelpful, error message.
5.	Character Builder: More instructions in red text to guide the process. I'll probably replace some of these red labels with "control tip" text. That is, instead of having the instructions on screen, relevant instructions will pop up when you hover your mouse over the relevant control for a second or so, and disappear when you move the mouse away.
6.	Behind the scenes, all the Alpha Mutation and Omega Tech cards I own are now entered into the database, which is only 100 of the total 200 that exist. (Note: Cryptic alliance cards are not entered yet. I forgot. I believe those will give me another 8, so I’ll have 108 of 200.) However, I don’t know exactly what to do with these cards. As I imagine it, deck building could be quite tedious using this software, so it might be far easier just to use physical cards. Still, I want to give people the option if I can find a way to make it work. It’s just not a priority to implement it yet. I’d rather clean up what’s clearly useable.
7.	Added a button to create a character randomly. All you have to do is name the character and, if you want, give a specific description to your weapons. (Planned revision: examples will be provided.)
***
EDIT 1/20/2026: Version 4.6. Character sheet now indicates the action required to use a power (e.g., standard, immediate interrupt).
***
EDIT 1/22/2026: Version 4.7. When the software is opened, it checks to see if its installation folder has the subfolders Characters and Images. If so, nothing happens. If not, it creates them. The Characters folder is where it expects character files to be stored, but you may store them anywhere you want. On the other hand, the Images folder is mandatory. If you create a character file and pull the image from any other folder, the image won't be properly saved. Using these folders makes the software portable. That is, if you move the application file to another location, the images will work properly without resaving the character files. Accordingly, I've uploaded sample character and image files as well, including the character file, image file, and a PDF of the character sheet. That said, you'll have far more fun creating your own characters.
***
EDIT: 1/23/2026: Version 4.8.
1.	Added the ability to load a saved character file in the PC list for initiative. This necessitated a change to the format of the character file, so all sample characters have been replaced. Characters created using prior versions won’t load properly but can be modified in Notepad to make them loadable. Just create a new character, look for the six added lines of text for HP, AC, FORT, REF, WILL, and INIT, copy those lines, then manually paste them into your existing character at the same spot. Then that character will load properly. For an example, see the sample lines below. You will add the six lines between the “Shield?” and “LMOH?” lines. Even if the numerical values are wrong, they will be corrected the next time you save the character because those values are recalculated at every save. Adding the lines even with bad data is simply a way to allow you to open a prior version character in version 4.8 (and beyond).

   "Shield?","0"
   
   "HP","35"
   
   "AC","18"
   
   "FORT","17"
   
   "REF","14"
   
   "WILL","13"
   
   "INIT","0"
   
   "LMOH?","0"

2.	Provided examples of every type of weapon, but weapon descriptions can still be left blank or typed in by the user. When a random character is generated, a random description will be selected for weapons owned.
***
EDIT 1/25/2026: Version 5. In GM Tools, rather than adding monsters one at a time on the fly, you can now load a pre-written encounter. The pre-written encounters are from every adventure published by Wizards of the Coast (or on their behalf). Hinderances (i.e., traps and hazards) aren't loaded because there are only five that have been published, and no more than one type appears in any given published encounter, so adding them manually is as easy as loading them as part of a pre-written encounter. For the next version, I'll be adding that functionality anyway because it will be necessary once I give the user the ability to pre-write their own encounters. For now, and as stated, pre-written encounters are only what was published by (or for) WotC.
